# General Rules and Security (v1)

## API Metadata

- Title: `Open Delivery API`
- Version: `v1.7.0`
- License: `Apache 2.0` (http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
- Contact: `https://www.opendelivery.org.br`

## Security Schemes

### OAuth2

- Type: `oauth2`
- Description: OAuth2 should be the standard authentication method between parties. - For the **ORDERS** and **MERCHANT** endpoints, the **Ordering Application** is responsible for credentials and token generation. - For the **LOGISTICS** endpoints, the **Logistics Service** will be responsible for managing these infos. > Webhooks are an exception and have their own authentication method, not using OAuth. As of the time of this release only one scope will be used for all endpoints: `od.all`. ### Generating a Client Credentials Token To generate a client credentials token, the merchant **Software Service** must retrieve the **clientId** and **clientSecret** from a **Ordering Application** or **Logistics Service** company and access the /oauth/token endpoint. > The **Ordering Application** or **Logistics Service** MUST provide one `clientId` and `clientSecret` credentials for each individual merchant it will work with, even if these merchants use the same **Software Service**. ### Usage The **accessToken** field will contain the token used to authenticate against the **Open Delivery** APIs. Once you’ve obtained this token, you can provide it in the “Authorization” header of requests you make to endpoints that require client credentials scopes. The **expiresIn** field indicates the lifetime of the access token, provided in seconds. This should be cached and re-used across requests until (or shortly before) expiration, not re-generated per request. ``` curl -H 'authorization: Bearer ' https://{baseURL}/v1/events:polling ``` > Refresh Token is not available at this version.
- Flow `clientCredentials` token URL: `oauth/token`

### apiKey

- Type: `apiKey`
- In: `header`
- Header/Param Name: `X-API-KEY`
- Description: The apiKey is a key that should be generated by the endpoint's host and passed to its clients. Each client of the endpoint can have its own key. The creation and content of the key is of responsibility of the endpoint's host. > As of the time of this release, only the **GET /v1/merchant** endpoint can require authentication via apiKey.

## Global Error Response Catalog

| Name | Description |
|---|---|
| `Accepted` | Request has been accepted for processing. |
| `BadRequest` | Bad Request |
| `Unauthorized` | Request lacks valid authentication credentials for the target resource |
| `NotFound` | The requested resource was not found. |
| `AccessDenied` | Authenticated participant request that violates some authorization rule. |
| `UnprocessableEntity` | Server understands the content type of the request entity, and the syntax of the request entity is correct, but it was unable to process the contained instructions. (Check if the instruction has not been sent before.) |
| `UnprocessableEntityOrderCancellation` | Server understands the content type of the request entity, and the syntax of the request entity is correct, but it was unable to process the contained instructions. (Check if the instruction has not been sent before.) |
| `ServiceUnavailable` | Service is not currently available. Requested service may be under maintenance or outside the operating window. |
